# Executive Summary
### In this lesson we are going to focus on three topics. Starting with file compression we are going to cover the uses and when and when not to use file compression. Once we get an understanding of that topic we will move on to the meat of the lesson Object oriented programming. First we will talk about oop in python and take a practical look at is going off of someone's code provided to us. Then in that same module we will modify the code to understand it. Once we do that we will then talk about some of the concepts we used in that module and break it down in a lucid chart. This lesson will be very useful for future programmers and will help anyone in the IT field understand programming a bit more. 
# File Compression
### Zip Files are used to get multiple files to act like one. This is done to make it easier for files to be shared. The best example of this is when you want to send a lot of data over an email. The file size might be too large for the email so if you add all the files to a zip file they can be compressed into one smaller file. When I compressed the SVG file it went from 288 kb to 128 kb. If I am being honest I am not sure what would happen if I did this with a jpeg file, so I did it. I am surprised when I compressed it into a zip file I saw no loss in file size. I think this is because the file was already compressed with lossy compression. So to confirm that theory I did it with a 4k PNG file that uses lossless compression. When I compressed the png file the file size went from about 750 kb to 500 kb.  
# Python OOP
### Shark is using two methods in this case. First it is using the swim() method and then it is using the be_awesome() method. The attributes are print("The shark is swimming.") and print("The shark is awesome."). The constructor method is used to initialize data in the program that you would like initialized with the object. The constructor method is automatically initialized. A Class is a blueprint created by a programmer for and object it contains a set of attributes that will characterize any object that is instantiated from the class. An object is the realised version of a class in a program. To instantiate an object from a class is to represent that object in an instance. 
# Object Oriented Concepts 
### The object that are instantiated in the shark program are sammi and stevie. Inheritance is almost like having a subclass. So the best way I can think of it is relating it to video games. You may start out as a rogue but that's vague. So then you add a subclass like thief, assassin, and saboutre. You still have all the things that make you a rogue but you gain new attributes that make you one of the three. If we were to do this in the shark example We could add a parent class called aquatic. This could have the Swim attribute in it then we could make another child class called fish and add the forgetful attribute to it. Both shark and Fish would be children of the Aquatic class and have the swim attribute. Encapsulation is when the elements of a program are hidden. so for example we hid the shark element in the class so the two functions only became swim and be awesome. abstraction in the shark case is when we break down and describe what attributes the shark has. 
# Conclusion 
### in this lesson we covered some new topics as well as revisiting some old concepts we learned in a previous lesson. We started off with file compression and talked about zip files and how they are used. While looking into that we compressed a jpeg file into a zip file and saw that there was no further compression because jpeg uses lossy compression. While files like png that use lossless compression do shrink in size when we throw them into a zip file. Then we moved on to Python object oriented programming. This one I really struggled with. This was hard for me because I felt like I had missed a lesson or class when talking about this. It took me much longer to understand what we are talking about and still I don't feel fully comfortable with it however it was useful. This is because with object oriented programming we can recycle code that we would have a harder time with in other programming formats. Then we talked about the concepts that are related to object oriented programming. This as well felt very abstract and I had a hard time wrapping my mind around it. Nevertheless this lesson was very insightful and really fun to work on. 
