# Executive summary 
### In this lesson we will be covering introductions to lucid chart. A way to display code and layouts in a visual manner. We will then go into networking and the basics. We aim to get you familiar with some of the equipment involved and a network as well as the layouts of a network. Then lastly we will cover encryption. This is a way of obscuring data. This lesson will be well rounded and hopefully spark interest in a particular topic.
# Introduction to networking
### Data transmission: 
### Packet: Unit Of data 
### Packet Switching: Technology that allows packets of data to be routed based on the destination address 
### IP Address: Unique identifying numbers
### DNS: directory of ip Addresses common names for example 54.293.26.214 might be amazon
### Protocall: Set of rules that allows devices to communicate. 
### All of the terms above work iin unison to help us use the internet and make up the internet as we know it today. 
### Network Hardware: A switch is better than a hub because A hub will share data across multiple pcs that are connected to it regardless of whether the data needs to go there or not. Where as a switch will send data t o only the device that needs it. On both of the devices data can only be sent over a local network. With a router you can send data over the widerweb and to other computers that are not connected to the local network. 
### Network Topologies: Single points of failure are when a network can be shut down by one item in the topology goes down. This can happen in configurations like the star configuration. This can also be seen in the ring configuration where data is being sent around a ring to get to the necessary computer. In my opinion wireless mesh is a better system than a network topology. it cuts down on the amount of work you have to do upfront by running wire and keeping computers in place with a wireless system. A laptop can be taken to any room in the building and still get internet access. 
### My network has bee4n made with a wireless router connecting to several pc's to my it makes the most sense because of the lack of wiring needed at each desk. 
# nsa/css: The NSA is very important to our nation's security not only do they look for threats to our nathon on the internet. They do this by looking for extremist activity and protecting current national secrets. 
# Cyber Security and Encryption
### Information systems security: If I were a part of an amazon chat the security triad would affect my job in many ways. The first being I could not share any of the information on the persons profile with anyone. This includes address and email. Second, I could not deny access to a customer's account if they own the account. Thirdly I would have to verify that the information given to them was correct. One tast that requires authentication in my daily life is entering my home. I can do this by entering a code to get through the door and this could be made multi factor by also requiring a key to unlock a second deadbolt. One of the other daily tasks is going to work. When i am there I am known by my boss and he authorized me to be there. This could be taken to multi factor by having me clock in. My final daily task that requires authentication is checking my school email. This can be taken to two factors by having a code sent to me via text to enter to make sure it is me logging in. ACL Is an access control list this allows a list of users to have specific access. Then there is RBCA This is roll based control access each roll is given specific access then users are assigned a roll. ACL is nice because you can fine tune access if a user needs some permissions that may not fit their roll in a RBAC system. This will help productivity. This however may cause issues if some people with the same job don't have access that others do. RBAC is nice because you only need to set up permissions once and assign users a roll that will save time. However you have less fine tune control over access. Cypher text is used to encrypt a message that would normally be stored as plain text. Then to be able to read the data you need to decrypt this information. When the sender send over the information it is encrypted with ciphertext and a public key. Then when the recipient gets this information it is sent over to the recipient with a private key that decrypts the data converting the cypher text back to plain text. Public Key encryption is important because it will help prevent anyone who is attempting to steal the information being sent from gaining access to the information because of the private key they are both using. 
### Cryptography: The Cesar Cypher is a method of encrypting data done by shifting the letter you mean to write three places over. When I type Cryptography is a growing field and encrypt it using the cesar cypher I end up getting etarvqitcrja ku c itqykpi hkgnf. When typing my message in the frequency finder I did find that I pretty much fell in line with the frequency finder. I do think this would be different in another language. with the changing of the word structure based on our langues rules. Polyalphabetic cyphers use a shared code word that is used to then decrypt based on how many spaces the number is in the alphabet. With the message i typed in the exploration and the code word i used i got a much flatter curve of letter frequency. 
### Brute Force: Brute force hacking is trying every possible key. This relates to Kerckhoff's principle because if the ciphertext falls into the enemy's hands then it can be hacked with brute force. 
# Conclusion
### In this lesson we covered many different topics. Starting off with lucid chart. This is fantastic because some people like myself are visual learners. This is a great way to display many things from how a code works to network topography. This leads us into the next topic covered in the lesson the basics of networking. This starts with some of the equipment involved in a network as well as the layout of a network. This was really nice because I has vague idea of how it worked but it was nice to have my thoughts on it confirmed or denied in this section. Lastly we went over encryption. This was fantastic because learning about the basics of it and know that it only gets more involved and complex is really exciting. Overall this was a fantastic lesson. 


