# Executive summary
### This lesson we aim to get you acquainted with the command prompt in your operating system. This will help you get a better understanding of how what you are doing in the GUI is being processed and how it can be done with code. We will also dip our toes into the world of python and making our first program. WIth this we aim to show you how simple programing can be. Lastly we are going to take a dive into file formats and graphics. We will talk about how a file format can effect your image and how you can improve a image with the correct processing. 
# Python Idle
### Shell Vs. File Editor: Python shell allows you to enter one command at a time to make sure your program will work. The file editor will allow you to compile all of the commands to make a program. 
### Code Examples: A Variable is a place to store a single value in the computer. A example of this would be having spam equals 42. The author uses spam bacon and eggs as variables in this example because python is based off of monty python and the flying circus and he aims to emulate that referencing the spam sketch from monty python. A assignment statement assigns a value to a variable. A assignment statement would look like Spam = 42. Because each variable is case sensitive Spam = 42 and spam = 42 are not the same. Functions are specific actions taken when you input the function into your code. a example of this would be the print function. By typing print () what ever you typed in the () will show up as text in your code. So if I typed print ('Spam is good when fried up and put over rice') and I ran the program it would show 'Spam is good when fried up and put over rice'. Python will always take a expression down to a single value. depending on the operation this can be displayed many ways. One way is through integers these are whole numbers. an example of this would be 42. The next way is float values. this is any value with a decimal point. while 42 is an integer 42.0 is a float value. the last data type is strings. strings spit out a text value. For example a sting would look like 'goodbye cruel world' when the function is completed.
# Graphics
### Raster Vs. Vector Graphics: Raster images are made up of millions of tiny pixels to create a larger image. Vector Graphics use geometry to create the image. raster is great for large images that don't need to be zoomed in on because you will lose image quality when you zoom in on raster images. Vector is great for high quality images that need to be examined closely. 
### Lossless Vd. Lossy Compression: It is very important that a designer chooses the right file format because if you have a high quality image for your website and it gets compressed from lossy compression it can ruin the image and cause problems with the aesthetic for your website. At the same time you have to keep in mind how much storage you have available in your system because high resolution images can eat through data like a monster. 
### JPG. GIF. And PNG files: GIF stands for graphics interchange format. This file format allows for animated images that the other file types can not take advantage of. JPG or Joint Photographic experts group. This file type is great because it allows creators to adjust how much compression is used when saving the image. PNG or portable network graphics this file type is great because it uses lossless compression and allows for a number of transparency options. 
### File Properties: My logo would be the logo I would use for my coffee rating app. I call it bean finders. The name is a bit silly but it makes me happy. This app would help you find the best beans in town according to your liking. users could store info and rate coffee shops and the type of coffee they got there. This led me to having 4 layers to keep the design simple and clear. A magnifying glass looking at a coffee bean. My file takes up about 288KB. This file type default opens with internet explorer. This is not a bad app to open with for simple viewing. It loads up quickly and is on every windows computer. I do not have a photo editor on my computer but that would be a better application to open with for editing. As a default any of the web browsers are ok for quick viewing. 
# Conclusion
### This lesson was amazing. Learning how to use command prompt to do simple tasks was really cool. I did make a lot of mistakes with it however it really made me happy to see what I did and how to fix my problems. You should see that in my attached images in my file folder. For some reason making a program in python was not as fun and interesting to me. It was nice to learn that python has a sandbox mode in the form of python shell so you can see how a line of code will function before you program something. I had no trouble following along with the python program as it was easy enough for me to understand. Then when we moved on to creating logos and file formats I was hooked back in. It is nice to know that choosing the right file format can make all the difference when it comes to how the image looks. Also I had no idea that you could make a image that does not get pixelated when you zoom in on it. I just assumed all images were made using Raster Graphics. Over all this lesson was amazing. 


