# Executive Summary
# Internet Architecture
### Internet protocall: a IP Address is a unique identifer for the internet so that information can be sent to the right location. IPv4 is the protocalled used when the internet first started. This has over 4 billion unique ip addresses 3.7 billion of them are used by ordinarry internet devices. SInce it is finite we have had to switch to ipv6. IPv6 has 128 bit ip addresses witch allows for more sigificantly more uniqie addresses. ICAANN or the Internet corporation for assigned names and numbers is responsible for making sure that the internet is unified on a global level. ICANN Has no control over the content on the internet but it dose make sure that the internet is interoperable by establishing policies that benifit that goal. 
### TCP/IP Protocol: TCP is ment to make sure data is sent properly throught switches hubs and other network devices. The client server relationship works much like a phone call. Where one person dials the number and someone picks up the call. The client is the person dialing and the server is the person answering in the example. Layers are a big part of internet protocol they help prevent the need for a major shift of all parts of the system to change when you want to change one thing. some of the applications that work on the application layer are http for websites, pop3 for emails.
### Internet Security: HTTP is hyper text transger protocol. This is when all of the data you send over is sent as clear text. This is a example of client server relationship becuase you the client are accesing information held on a server. The protocols used to secure data is known as secure sockets layers. The browser you are using will ask the website to identify its self and then the webserver will send a computer a ssl certificate. The computer will then send a message to the server and the server will reply with an aknowledgement. Then and onylthen will enycripted data be sent. The other protocol that is used to secure data is TLS or transport layer security. This is the successor to ssl. This will authenticate the server client then send enycripted data. 
### Securing your browser: One of the major reasons to secure your browser is to reduce the amount of spyware or malware you could get led to by not securing it. This can allow someone to steal all of your information with none of your knowledge. 
