# Executive summary 

### The goal of this lesson is to educate ourselves and others on the hardware components of the computer as well as break down how the components process data. We plan to achieve this goal by showing all of the components one at a time and explaining what they do for the system. then we will show how the computer sees information so we better understand how computers work

# Hardware

### Hard Drives and memory: Hard drives store information for long periods of time and can be thought of as long term memory. They operate by writing information on a magnetic disk with a mechanical arm. Memory or random access memory (Ram) can be thought of a short term memory. Its like remembering a number before you have a chance to write it down. Solid state drives are the latest form of storage replacing traditional hard drives. with solid state drives there are no moving parts so there is almost no speed limit on them making them much faster than the traditional hard drive. An added benefit of no moving parts is increased reliability. a drop will not slow down or ruin the harddrive but a solid state drive can withstand a stronger beating than a harddrive. When it comes to random access memory it is important to have a lot in your system because it is the bridge between the hard drive and the cpu. if you don't have enough memory then you will have to send data from the slower hard drive to the cpu. ram has come in two different forms one being a 64 bit data path and the other being a 32 bit data path. the difference being the amount of data transferred per clock cycle. with 64 bit every time a cycle happens 64 bits of data are transferred with 32 bit every time a cycle happens it's only 

### ALU and Control Unit: The ALU is the arithmetic logic unit. This Will handle any and all calculations that are given to it by the control unit. The control unit gets instructions from ram and then hands the instructions off the the alu. The alu will then put out a output. 
### Hardware CPU Input Output: In this example you are inputting information from the self check out unit into the computer via scanning the barcode. The CPU will process the information and output a price and what item it is. All three are used in this example as well as hardware playing a role.
### Logic Gates: truth tables are a way of explaining how the physical action of a signal looks and what different gates do. this applies perfectly because computing is just ones and zeros and logic gates are how the computer can decipher and produce ones and zeros.
### IEEE - Ethically aligned design: Ethics is important when designing and programming or ai or even hardware because of the negative impact it could have on our society. 
# Data Representation 
### Numerical conversion: Decimal hexadecimal and binary all operate off a different set of base powers and number of digits. Decimal is a power of ten and has ten digits ranging from zero to nine. Hexadecimal operates on base power of 16 and has 16 digits ranging from zero to nine as well as the letter A through F. Lastly we have binary that operates on bases of two and only has two digits zero or one. 
### Hexadecimal Color Representation: Color #abb0ff is described as In a RGB color space, hex #abb0ff is composed of 67.1% red, 69% green and 100% blue. Whereas in a CMYK color space, it is composed of 32.9% cyan, 31% magenta, 0% yellow and 0% black. It has a hue angle of 236.4 degrees, a saturation of 100% and a lightness of 83.5%.
### This color is not very accessible. This is because of the lightness and saturation. The website provided to locate the color even tells me the closest websafe color that should be used. light colors should not be used because they are hard to contrast.
# Conclusion 
### In this lab we covered how a computer functions and the main components as well as the language used by computers. We also took a look at Ethics and accessibility. I believe this lab was well rounded covering not only the intellectual needs of a programmer but the moral and ethical needs of one as well. 

