# Executive Summary 
### In this lesson we aim to take a look at software and its roll in information systems. We will take a look at the types of software and what they are used for. Then we will take a look at virtualization how it works and how it can me optimised. Then we will move on to a coding language to create software. We will learn why python is a great first coding language. Finally we will talk about careers in the information technology field. How to advance them as well as explore how jobs 
# Software 
### Operating systems: Operating systems can be thought of as the foundations for all applications on the computer. This allows other programs and software to interact with the hardware. One of the most predominate operating systems is Microsoft Windows. this is one of the largest and most programs are made with this operating system in mind when being developed. 
### Utility software: Utility software is a program that allows you to fix or modify your computer in someway. One example of this is anti malware software such as malware bytes. This fills in the gaps left by your operating system by adding extra protection.  
### Applications: Utility software are applications that can be used to aid or automate a process. One such software is Microsoft Office. This software allows you to make all sorts of documents spreadsheets and powerpoints.
### Enterprise software: Enterprise software is a custom built software to keep all of a company's processes in one place. It has all the information processes forms and data all in one place. Microsoft has enterprise solutions for companies such as specific versions of windows that need to be logged into a vpn inorder for them to work. 
# Virtualization
### Virtualization allows single use server to become multi use ones. This allows the equipment you are buying to be used more efficiently and makes it so you need to buy less. This lowers the cost of entry when making a new server. 
### Hypervisor: this is what allows the virtual space to use physical hardware. I think of this as a engine control unit on a car. the hypervisor receives a request then allocates the appropriate amount of hardware like how a engine control unit tells the fule injectors the right amount of gas to out put to receive the perfect air fule mixture. 
### Cloud Computing Vs. Virtualization: The big difference between cloud computing and virtualization to me is the automation. they can both make one set of hardware many but the important part is cloud computing distributes resources automatically whereas virtualization requires user input each time. 
### Moving to cloud based infrastructure can be done by adding a management software that automatically allocates resources and making a self serve portal for users to get on demand access to the cloud. 
# Python
### Pseudo Code: this is a coding language that is intended for human reading rather than computer reading. 
### Compiled language takes the code written and transforms it into binary where as interpreted langue dose not get converted into binary. 
# Career exploration
### Career Expansion: I have found that most of of the job postings are for help desk technicians. This is quite good for me as I think I would make a good customer support tech. Looking into the bureau of labor statistics it is amazing to see that most jobs that are computer related are growing at an above average rate. With the projected number of new jobs being in the thousands.
### Certifications: Cisco has a amazing range of certification available to people ranging from entry level programs to get your feet wet to Architect level certifications to take your career to the next level. This is amazing that a company is offering such a wide range of certifications for people of all levels as a alternative to college. 
### Certifications: after looking around on tric's website I have found that they offer several resources for different types of certification. From website development to networking. They have industry certificates and short term certificates.
### CO-OP: The first thing you need to get a co-op is to take the orientation from there you will need to create and upload a resume to a career coach through handshake. They will then give you approval. Next step is to apply and interview for a co-op. Once all of that is complete and you have secured the position you then apply to have it cound a college credit. One of the big benefits of an internship is you will learn a lot more in the field and seeing the application put to use. You will run into a lot more problems doing it every day than you would in school where you learn how things work when something doesn't get messed up. 
### Industry Associations / Student Organizations: The Collegiate Cyber Defense competition (CCDC) is a great organization to join because not only dose it look amazing on a resume but it is also a national organization. So you will get a ton of experience in the field as well as being able to network with a bunch of other individuals in the same area of study as you. 
# Conclusion
### In this lesson we had a focused view of software and how diverse it can be. We started the conversation with an overview of the types of software available to us. Ranging from applications to operating systems. Then we covered Virtualization and how software is used to make virtualization better than just the partitioning of hardware. Then we moved on to a programing language used to create software in the form of python. This is an excellent first programming language to learn. Then we moved on to careers in the field and looked at statistics for how the field is growing as well as how to improve our opportunities by expanding our selves.

